# Minesweeper
This game turned out to be much more complicated to model in Forge than we anticipated it to be. We initially tried modeling it in Temporal Mode, but ran into issues with ensuring linearity across our states (which in this case, are Boards). We also attempted to create a full-fledged solver at first for any given Minesweeper board, but issues quickly arose with respect to next, last, and first pointers, as well as coding up our nextLogicalMove predicate to ensure proper transitions between states. This prompted us to have a discussion with Prof. Nelson and our Mentor TA Ese to add additional constraints to our model such that we could achieve linearity and obtain a solved board in the end.

One of the ways we did this was setting our board size to a fixed 4x4 size with 4 of the squares being bombs. We have a sig StaticBoard representing the positions of the bombs and the values of neighboring tiles, which is often referenced throughout our predicates. We also have a sig BoardState which relays the status of closed and open tiles at each state of the game. The StaticBoard is not included in the reachable chain that all the BoardStates have, because we don't ever want a next board to be the fully revealed one, and similarly our initial state is always a completely covered board spare one 'safe' tile that is revealed as a starting point for the model. We finally have a Game sig which keeps track of the initial BoardState as well as next pointers for the Boards. 

Prof. Nelson provided us with a visualizer stencil from his Sudoku exercise which was immensely helpful in creating our own visualizer for Minesweeper. Our visualizer presents the board at each state, where tiles are either closed (grey) or open(white) where they can be either empty, have a positive integer value representing the number of neighboring tiles that are bombs, or have a black circle for a bomb, which should never be opened seeing as revealing a bomb is the losing condition for the game.   

The limitations of our model is that it is not a full solver as we had intended it to be, and one square starts off being revealed. Additionally, the typical size of a Minesweeper board is 16x16, but runtime constraints forced us to consider smaller models so that we could rigorously test and evaluate our predicates to ensure they work as intended. 
